# README

This a conceptual web app idea using Google Books API to create a social media site. The app is currently very barebones, and is designed to be a launch pad for wider UX/UI personal development. IWantBooks is focused on allowing users to: search for books using Google's API, allowing users to add those books to their libraries, and facilitating conversations on the material in these books. The integration with Books API happens through an endpoint in the code and requires an API key to utilise. Dotenv is crucial in the use of this program, so please ensure you create your own file with:

    * A Google Books API Key
    * A Google Client ID and Secret

Both of these can be generated by going to Google's cloud console.

## Installation

Clone repo to your machine and change directory to the IWantBooks. This app is a development version, so will require a .env file in the working directory.

Once the project is cloned and checked out

Execute:

    $ bundle install

Then use the command:

    $ rails server

To open a browser window with the project loaded on a localhost server.

Before running the server, you will need to run the command
    $ rails db:migrate

This will create the database and allow the app to run correctly. Please also make sure you have a .env in the working directory. The gitignore file is already set to not upload these files, so please do not change it.

The .env file will need:

    * A Google Books API Key
    * A Google Client ID and Secret

Both of these can be generated by going to Google's cloud console.

## Usage

The localhost server is shutdown using the command CTRL + C. If this isn't done then the server will stay active on one of the network ports. By default the server uses port 3000.

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/Captainmango/IWantBooks. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).




